---
layout: post
title: Indie Music Gems 8/28
tags: [IMG]
---

Happy Friday and welcome to the first iteration of Indie Music Gems in blog format. Since starting Indie Music Gems the most frequent piece of feedback I have received is that I should play a demo of the track before I review it. Since I do not want to test playing other peoples music on YouTube, and because I have been wanting to try out different formats for the show, I have decided to kill two birds with one stone and try out a blog.

But you're not here for all this explaining, so lets get started with this weeks tracks!

---

# five.am - &seb
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/4j7mS216aGnYCfcWeQtQWI" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

Where to begin, there were so many things that I thought this lofi pop track got right. I quite enjoyed the gently strummed and lightly fuzzed rhythm guitar that played along with the smooth bass lines of the track. The production was sprinkled with fun textures and one shots that kept the track interesting the whole way through.

But possibly my overall favorite piece of five.am was the dreamy vocals, which turned this track into a pop lullaby of sorts. All these elements combine to create a catchy tune that is perfect for late night listening.

---

# Warmth of the Sun - Reyes
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/7wypzPrXbZCgsUJP8KD6fq" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

I was drawn into this singer songwriter track right away by the acoustic guitar, the chord progression and fingerstyle playing were both simple and effective. Once the vocals started, I was instantly sold on this piece, the artist mentioned that they were heavily influenced by Bob Dylan which I hear a lot in their singing.

Normally singer songwriter pieces are a hit or miss for me since they can sound a bit empty to my ears, but that was not the case with this track. There were some small hiccups in the guitar playing, but they felt so raw and natural that I didn't really mind, they may have even enhanced the track for me. The fact that this was recorded with an iPhone's microphone on the voice memos app makes me question my collection of microphones.

---

# Smile - Benjamin G Fairnington
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/7ys6xCmybEc5mRdAtZU0xI" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

This alternative track has a fun 60's psychedelic rock vibe to it that I really enjoyed, despite not listening to that genre of music much. The keys had an awesome carnival/boardwalk feel to them, and the vocals were charming and catchy. There were plenty of cool effects that whip around the listener's ears, without becoming too distracting or sounding out of place.

One thing I am a bit of a sucker for is well recorded and performed drums, I am happy to say that Smile checked both of these boxes for me. I really loved how the song just ended in an abrupt mic drop fashion, something I wish that more artists would be brave enough to do.

---

# Capgras - Unknown Nobody
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/08I9E1lGsAFy9Ov0TS5HLC" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

I was quite impressed by how dystopian the artist managed to get Capgras to sound, the eeirie choral vocals and ghostly string segments add an unsettling feel to the track. This mood is reinforced by the lyrics and vocal performance, which felt deeply personal and pessimistic.

Throughout the track the bass line thumps along like a slow and deep clock, being filled nicely by a tape warped sounding guitar and a light crackling texture. For me, Capgras was quite an interesting track that kept my attention the whole time.

---

# The August Playlist
With this being the last Friday of August, I thought I would end it by sharing a playlist of all the tracks that I have covered this month.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/306a65RSucXWUOt9bVBaWU" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>