---
layout: post
title: Indie Music Gems 9/4
tags: [IMG]
---

Hello, happy Friday and welcome back to yet another segment of Indie Music Gems. In these posts I go over some of my favorite independently produced music that I found over the past seven days. Here are my picks for this week, hope you enjoy them as much as I did!

---

# Night Beat - Novelistme
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/6FHF9hAwgfdU5gxPPaUEMn" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

I love all the different places this song goes, from the first few seconds of listening I was expecting a straight forward rock song, but I was excited when it transitioned into a more bouncy, synth bass driven tune. That's not to say however that this isn't also a good rock song, the bright and deceptively simple guitar playing keeps the entire track alive and moving along.

This isn't the first song I have heard by Novelsitme during my time working on Indie Music Gems, I have enjoyed tracks of theirs that I heard before so I'm excited to be sharing one today.

---

# Crooked Smile - Linelions
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/4Dq3dXjPFxB63CQJGnJd8t" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

I was a bit skeptical going into my first listen on this track as I find many folksy/country love songs are a bit too corny for me, but this one was quite tastefully done.

Right away the thing that jumps out to me about Crooked Smile is the superb production, every piece of this track sounds very professional, I absolutely loved the way the drums and guitar turned out. The song as a whole flows effortlessly from one section to the next, and doesn't overstay its welcome.

---

# If the Mighty Sun - The Island
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2iRSuxGEe8v92oqsbeStGp" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

If the Mighty Sun definitely has a trippy intro that almost put me off to the track, but I am really glad I stuck around to hear where it went. I was met with an epic wall of synths and drums, and some perfectly laid down bass.

The vocals remained trippy and spacey, but they blended nicely into the instruments once those started picking up. Most importantly the song got me curious to hear what else the album had in store.

---

# Don't Leave Me Hanging - Alcie Bela
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/4bdNJwr1bCfd7OD2KfzKoO" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

This one snuck up on me, it starts off as a rather soft acoustic piece that blooms wonderfully into a larger full band mix for the choruses. This to me was a great choice since it added contrast that kept me engaged, it's awesome they were able to pull it off so well.

I really enjoyed the vocal performance and emotion in Don't Leave Me Hanging, the backing vocals were quite cool being a bit distant and higher pitched. This was one of the more unique tracks I came across during my week of listening, and it will definitely be stuck in my head for awhile.

---

# chill++ - bong

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/4TKFfjyt3DCAJnoh7zytQY" width="100%" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

I loved the vocal melodies in this future pop song, the sound design as a whole was very full they drown the listener in bass and awesome synth pads. I am quite picky with instrumental songs (especially electronic ones) since I often come across ones that just play the same loop on repeat, I appreciated the variety in this track each different section felt familiar but different.

The interesting percussion and effects gave chill++ a polished feel, and the chords in the drop were just plain satisfying.